# My_BSc_Diploma_Thesis

The thesis I completed for my Bachelor's degree in Physics at the Department of Electronics and Computers at Aristotle University of Thessaloniki titled "Wireless sampling and representation of temperature and humidity data with ESP32 microcontroller".

**Abstract**  
The subject of this thesis is the wireless recording and representation of temperature and humidity data with the ESP32 microcontroller. For this to be accomplished, the basic features of the microcontrollers, the basic information of the Arduino and the mode of operation (connectivity and structure) of the Internet Of Things (IoT) were analyzed. The system implementation includes the technical characteristics, the functionality and the wiring of the ESP32 microcontroller, the DHT22 sensor and the SD card module. The result of this device is the collection and recording of temperature and humidity measurements of the space, which are represented in real time plots, on a local server via WiFi wireless communication. The description of the system implementation code includes the necessary tools for programming the ESP32 board, the code libraries, the file management on the SD card and the SPIFFS memory, the code of the Arduino and HTML files that are necessary for the sampling and the creation of the sever. The sampling code was written in the Arduino IDE in Wiring language which is a variant of C / C ++ and the server in Vim text editor in HTML language. The Fritzing and Draw.io programs were also used to create the system circuits and flowchart.

**TIP:** *For your convenience with file manipulation in the SD card and SPIFFS memory of the ESP32, copy and paste the two sketches folders of the "Useful Arduino sketches" in your Arduino sketchbook directory.*
